.\"Copyright 2006-2007 (c) Brian Smith
.\"Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
.\"are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
.\"notice and this notice are preserved.
.TH TIVOBRIDGE 8 "7 May 2007"
.SH NAME
tivobridge \- TiVo/mDNS packet repeater daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
tivobridge
[-c config_file] [-f] [-h] [-u username] [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tivobridge
is a packet repeater for both the TiVo discovery beacon and (if enabled) 
Multicast DNS protocols.  It is intended as a way for TiVo boxes and other 
devices or programs that use either of those (normally single-subnet) 
protocols to see each other across routers in a complex local network.
.LP
When the daemon starts, it opens a raw socket for forwarding, as well as 
listener sockets for both protocols that it works with.  A configuration 
file is used to direct packet forwarding operations for both protocols, 
which may be tailored to fit nearly any network configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " config_file"
Specify an alternate configuration file for TiVoBridge.  The default is 
\fBtivobridge.conf\fP, located in the system configuration directory.
.TP
.B \-f
Run TiVoBridge in the foreground.  This also enables a debug mode, 
displaying messages that are written to the system log and those related 
to packet forwarding activity.
.TP
.B \-h
Display program version and usage information.
.TP
.BI \-u " username"
Specify the user as which the program should run.  If the username is 
invalid or not specified, \fBnobody\fP is used by default.  TiVoBridge 
drops root privileges after initialization, and will not run if it cannot.
.TP 
.B \-v
Display program version and copyright.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The TiVoBridge configuration file resembles an INI file in its structure, 
with \fIname\fP=\fIvalue\fP pairs divided into sections.  Each section 
header and name/value pair is on a line by itself, and blank lines and 
those starting with # are ignored.
.LP
There are currently three possible section headers, \fB[tivo]\fP, 
\fB[mdns]\fP and \fB[options]\fP, the first two of which correspond to the 
TiVo beacon and Multicast DNS protocols.  Each non-options section is a 
packet forwarding "rule", and may occur one or more times in a 
configuration file with different parameters for each type of forwarding 
required.  It is possible for multiple forwarding rules to be matched and 
executed in response to a single incoming packet.
.LP
Each forwarding rule contains some or all of the following parameters:
.TP
.B from
IP address or subnet (using CIDR notation) that is compared against an 
incoming packet's source IP to determine whether or not it should be 
forwarded.  If none are specified for a particular rule, all packets 
match.
.TP
.B notfrom
IP address or subnet (using CIDR notation) that is compared against an
incoming packet's source IP to determine whether or not it should 
\fInot\fP be forwarded.  A packet is only forwarded if it passes any
"from" matching and fails to pass any "notfrom" matching.
.TP
.B origin
Source IP address for use when forwarding packets.  There should be only 
one of these specified in a forwarding rule, if any.  If not specified, 
the source IP from the incoming packet will be used.
.TP
.B to
Destination IP addresses for packet forwarding.  There may be more than 
one of these per rule, but there must be at least one for a rule to be 
considered.
.LP
The \fB[options]\fP section contains global configuration options for 
TiVoBridge.  The following option is currently supported:
.TP
.B interface
IP address of network interface to accept input from.  One or more 
interfaces may be specifed on separate lines and, if none are specified, 
TiVoBridge will accept input from any interface.  This option is only 
meaningful on systems that provide to applications the interface that a 
packet was received on, such as Linux or BSD.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Force reload of the configuration file.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Shut down the server.
.LP
The result of sending any other signals to the server is undefined.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/tivobridge.conf
Contains configuration data for \fBtivobridge\fP.
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
\fItivobridge\fP is free; anyone may redistribute copies of it to anyone
under the terms stated in the GNU General Public License, a copy of which
accompanies each copy of \fItivobridge\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Smith <brian@smittyware.com>
